Updates to Password Change doc (#8213)
auth0/docs: articles/connections/database/password-change.md

# Change Users' Passwords

::: note

> This article will help you learn how to reset a user's password. If you are trying to configure the custom Password Reset page for your tenant, see [Password Reset Page](/universal-login/password-reset). If you are a user of Auth0 and are trying to reset the password to your Auth0 account, see [Reset Your Auth0 Account Password](/support/reset-account-password).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article covers how to reset a user's password. If you are trying to configure the custom Password Reset page for your tenant, see [Password Reset Page](/universal-login/password-reset). If you are a user of Auth0 and are trying to reset the password to your Auth0 account, see [Reset Your Auth0 Account Password](/support/reset-account-password).
```

::: note
You can only change passwords for users signing in using database connections. Users signing in using social or enterprise connections need to reset their passwords with the relevant identity provider.
:::

## Trigger an interactive password reset flow

An interactive password reset flow can be triggered in three ways, depending on your use case:

- [**Universal Login Page**](#use-universal-login): If your app uses Universal Login, the user uses the Lock widget on the Login screen to trigger a password reset email.
- [**Authentication API**](#use-the-authentication-api): Send a `POST` call to the Authentication API to send a password reset email to the user.
- [**Embedded Lock**](#use-lock): The user uses the Lock login screen embedded in their app to trigger a password reset email.

### Use Universal Login

If your application is using Universal Login, the user will be able to trigger a password reset from the login page. With the New Universal Login Experience, the user will click the **Don't remember your password?** link and then enter their email address.

> ::: note

Reviewer 2: The experience is basically the same for the new and old UL, do we need to talk about both?

If your application uses the Classic Universal Login Experience, it by default uses the Lock Widget, which also has a forgot password link, which brings up a screen that will allow the user to enter their email address much in the same way.
:::

This will fire off a POST request to Auth0 that will trigger the password reset process. Once the password reset has been triggered, the user will now [receive a password reset email](#password-reset-emails).

### Use the Authentication API

> If your application uses start an interactive password reset flow using the Authentication API, make a `POST` call specifying the email address of the user account whose password you would like to reset in the `email` field. If the call is successful, the user will receive an email prompting them to change their password.

Reviewer: If your application uses ~start~?

If your Connection is a custom database and the user exists in the database, invoke the Authentication API for `changePassword`.
:::

Once the password reset has been triggered, the user will now [receive a password reset email](#password-reset-emails).

> ### Use Lock

Reviewer 2: Do we need to mention Lock here? In the context of avoiding talking about Lock / Embedded login, unless it's the specific Embedded Login section, I'd remove it.

If your application has Lock embedded in it, the process is similar to the above. The user can start the password reset process by using the Lock widget.

The user clicks on the **Don't remember your password?** link on the Lock screen, and then enters their email address.

Once the password reset has been triggered, the user will now receive a password reset email.

## Password reset emails

> Regardless of how it was triggered, if the `POST` call is successful, the user receives an email containing a link to reset their password.

Reviewer 2: I'd remove "If the POST call is successful"

![](/media/articles/connections/database/password-reset-email.png)

Clicking the link will send the user to the customizable [password reset page](/universal-login/password-reset).

> 

Reviewer 2: I'd remove 'customizable'

:::

> In the Classic Experience you can [configure a url](/email/templates#configuring-the-redirect-to-url) to redirect users after completing the password reset. The URL will receive a success indicator and a message. The New Experience will redirect the users to the [default login route](/universal-login/default-login-url) when it succeeds, and will handle the error cases as part of the Universal Login flow. The Redirect URL in the email template will be ignored.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the [Classic Universal Login Experience](/universal-login/classic) you can [configure a url](/email/templates#configuring-the-redirect-to-url) to redirect users after completing the password reset. The URL will receive a success indicator and a message. The [New Experience](/universal-login/new) will redirect the users to the [default login route](/universal-login/default-login-url) when it succeeds, and will handle the error cases as part of the Universal Login flow. The Redirect URL in the email template will be ignored.  
```

:::

In the Classic Experience you can [configure a url](/email/templates#redirect-to-results-for-the-change-password-email-template) to redirect users after completing the password reset. The URL will receive a success indicator and a message. The New Experience will redirect the users to the [default login route](/universal-login/default-login-url) when it succeeds, and will handle the error cases as part of the Universal Login flow. The Redirect URL in the email template will be ignored.  

In most cases, if the password reset is successful, the user's destination can be set in the [password reset email](/email/templates#configuring-the-redirect-to-url) if you wish to customize it. 

> However, for applications using the New Universal Login Experience, the redirect destination is handled differently. Users are instead redirected to the [default login route](/universal-login/default-login-url) upon success. Any error cases are then automatically handled as part of the Universal Login flow, and the Redirect URL in the email template will be ignored.

Reviewer 2: I think we are already mentioning this above

Anyone with administrative privileges to your Auth0 tenant can manually change a user's password in the [Users](${manage_url}/#/users) section of the Dashboard.

1. Click on the username to select the user for whom you want to change the password. 
1. Scroll down to the bottom of the user page, then click on the red **CHANGE** button in the red **Change Password** box. 
  ![](/media/articles/connections/database/manual-password-reset.png)
1. Enter the new password, and click **Save**.

> ## Change password expiration settings using Rules

Reviewer 2: I think this does not belong to this document
